November 8, 2017
#intothewildwoods
Week 2 Day 8 spread:
1. once upon a time       World Tree
2. in a land far away     Ace of Bows
3. a call is heard        6 of Arrows
4. a companion is gained  Page of Bows
5. a challenge is heard   9 of Vessels
6. a new path begins      Sun of Life

Day 9 Story:
Wanderer, Guardian, Pole Star

Dewa
"Flying Squirrel" dewa (day-wah) in Cherokee

Once upon a time a tiny flying squirrel was born in a warm cozy cave
high up in the misty mountains.  His name is Dewa (day-wah) owing to
the word spoken for such squirrels by the people of a local tribe of humans.
His birth was nothing out of the ordinary, except that his twin sister was
stillborn.  So he always felt as if some part of himself was missing.  The
tragic death of his sister would affect his mother is some inexplicable way.
She would be anything but motherly towards Dewa.  She became as cold as ice,
and over time any life within her just faded away.  She became like stone.

Dewa would grow up very much unloved. His father would make the occasional
appearance only to be physically abusive to Dewa and his mother.  Father was
a very large flying squirrel with paws like stones.  With the flick of a
paw he could send Dewa or his mom flying across the cave and into the hard
stone walls. As if, one second you were here and the next you were across
the cave, laying on the ground broken and bleeding.  Father would pound
and pummel for no reason other than he was bigger, stronger, and able
to do it.  Dewa's mother also abused him by tying him up and leaving him
for hours in the deepest darkest part of the cave.  He often cried himself
to sleep.  Such was Dewa's life for many years.

At last, the day came to attend school and learn how to become a proper
flying squirrel.  This offered Dewa some brief moments of freedom in an
otherwise tortured existence.  But as he was a small squirrel for his age,
Dewa was again faced with the abuse of larger bullies.  There was little
relief and he often felt there was no reason to live.
He wanted to just fly away.  But how?

The day came when Dewa could stand it no more.  He got between his father
and mother when his father was about to hit her.  Dewa knew better.  Dewa
knew this would send his father into even more of a rage.  Dewa expected
his life to be ended.  His father grabbed him, lifting him up as if he
was a feather, then hurled him across the cave and into the wall.  This
hurt worse than any time before. His father shouted "don't get up, boy!".
Something snapped inside Dewa and with all his might he arose. Dewa was
in pain and bleeding but he had heard a call to "stand up and fight back!".
Dewa got to his feet and with both paws grabbed a large stone.  A stone
larger than he could have ever lifted before this moment.  Dewa launched
himself at his father with all of his being.  His father deflected the
blow. Yet there was enough force against father's rib cage that his
legs buckled and he knelt down in pain.  There was a flash in his father's
cold black eyes, surely this spelled the end for Dewa.  But his father
simply stood up and said "at last, boy, you fight back" then
walked out of the cave never to be seen again.

A new path opened up before Dewa. He would go on to finish school, love
and be loved by many companions, endure the death of loved ones, and face
many other challenges that are a part of life.  While there is far
more to tell of his life, suffice it to say, Dewa would soar and
fly as flying squirrels should do.
