A quick video of 50 witchy subjects to share your path as a witch, 
and to let other people get to know you and what it is that you practice and believe.

1. Do you believe that dreams are a window to the soul or to the other ?
2. Why do you want to share your spiritual path with the world ?
    Maybe you wear a pentacle and you keep it where no one can see it shove down your shirt.
3. Which element reflects your personality the most ? 
    Earth, air, fire, or water ... sixth = spirit, coz pentacle has 5 points
    And not necessarily what element you are, but which one best reflects your personality. 
4. What deities if any do you connect with ?
5. List your own personal associations with each color of the rainbow ?
6. What is it about your life experience that has given you these associations 
7. What is the most important or crucial part of spell craft to you ?
8. Tell us about a spell you've performed that manifested in an unexpected way 
9. Are you solitary or part of a coven 
10. If you are solitary, are you happy as a solitary witch or do you wish to be part of a coven ?
11. How were you raised spiritually and how is that played a part in your practices today ?
12. Which element do you fear most and why
13. How are you first introduced to witchcraft 
14. Your zodiac signs ?
15. Your moon sign or your sun sign really reflect ?
16. Your personality and which one reflects ?
17. Your personality the most ?
18. What is magic, i.e. magick, to you ?
19. What is the most powerful magical influence for you such as color crystals, the weather, things like that. 
20. What animal do you most align with spiritually ?
21. What is your preferred method of divination
22. Why do you consider yourself pagan wicca or a non-religious ?
23. If you can give one piece of advice to a new witch somebody who's interested in
    witchcraft what would it be and why is this important to you 
24. Do you find the daytime or the nighttime more magical or do you find them equally as magical ?
25. Why do you consider yourself psychic if so explain 
26. Are you open about your practice as a witch or do you keep it to yourself and why ?
27. What is one way that you discreetly display your inner witch to the world ? 
    Maybe you wear a pentacle and no one sees it because you keep it
    tucked out in your shirt maybe you wearclothes of a certain color to reflect a
    magical intention that you want to manifest something that you share with
    the world but no one knows that you're sharing it because you're a witch 
28. Do you have a book of shadows if so share it or describe it if you're not comfortable sharing your magical writings 
29. What crystals do you resonate with the most right now 
30. What phase was the moon in when you were born and how do you feel this influences how you are as an adult
31. How does your home reflect your inner witch 
32. Which of your five physical senses serve you the best in your magic
33. Describe the most magical place that you've ever been 
34. Have you ever used mind-altering substances or drugs in your practice if so what did you use
    what was your experience and would you do it again 
35. What do you do on a regular basis to help protect the natural environment ?
    That is so important to you as a witch. Maybe you donate to wildlife conservation or you pick up trash. 
    What do you do to help protect the environment, because nature is a very
    very very important part I mean it's basically the platform for witchcraft.
36. Have you ever encountered the spirit of a dead loved one or a ghost in general, if so describe the experience 
37. What color is most magical to you 
38. Do you recognize deities and if so describe them, what are deities to you 
39. Have you ever performed a hex or a curse if so explain talk about it 
40. What are your personal ethics for magic or do you have any at all 
41. Which time of the year feels most magical to you for me it's fall 
42. Do you celebrate the Sabbath and if so how which sabat is your favorite and why
43. Describe your current altar or record it film it share it with us explain each
    item on your altar why you have it there what it does for you and how your altar
    serves you what do you use it for 
44. Do you believe that dreams are a window to the other side or gives us a look into
    another realm or dreams just the brains way of processing the thoughts from the day 
45. How would you describe the difference between spirituality and religion 
46. Do you feel that witchcraft is too focused on the feminine and not enough on the masculine 
    And if so explain why you feel this way. 
    Do you have any friends personal friends not just online
    but people in your life that you physically interact with that are also witches 
47. We're in nature, what do you feel the most empowered by magically ? 
    The oceans, the mountains, you could live anywhere, in
    nature where would you live in a forest by the beach in the mountains etc 
48. Do you feel that the negative experiences from your past help or hurt your magic 
49. Do you practice shadow work and if so how do you practice it 
50. What are a few ways that you incorporate magic into your mundane
    Like things that you do around the house
    maybe you frequently smudge your home
    with sage or you have altar set up around your home for me I like to spray
    my linens down with a crystal water it's just a good way to help empower your
    dreams and help promote relaxation on a spiritual level 
51. Do you perform any daily rituals and if so describe them 
52. Which do you find to be most powerful the Sun or the moon 
53. Would you consider yourself a light witch a dark witch both or neither and why 
54. Describe a time that you were discriminated against for being a witch
    If you've ever been discriminate against for being a witch, maybe you haven't
    and that's great but if you have tell us about it 
