DESTE “Whatever destiny bestows…” Aegina. Katina’s home, today…. 
The box opened easy with the little key. It was in its place, tied with a red thread. Three knots held it strong. “As if it is afraid of invisible enemies! Hm.” From the inside came the purple velvet into light. I turned the box upsidedown and unwraped the velvet. A figure with glowing eyes appeared on the top. The northeast wind blew. "Mom! Shut the windows, the wind will blow the cards away". Helen appeared in the doorway, wiping her hands on a kitchen towel. She sat on the chair next to me and pulled it inward. "Will you read them for me?" "What should I read for you?" "Will you read the cards for me?" "Eh?" "The cards. The Katina’s cards, will you read them for me? " "What should I read for you mom, your fate?" "Yes". "Why? Do you know how to read them?" "No, I don’t. But she knew and she wrote them down for you. Two days she dictated them to me. Wait. I'll get my notebook." She pulled the drawer of the chest and when it had enough it finally opened. She shoved her hands into the drawer, lifted all the napkins, tablecloths, embroideries, and looked at the bottom. "Look what I found! The napkin of the yellow lamp! And I was wondering! Where did I put it... where did I put it...! I put it somewhere and I will find. Here’s the notebook!" She examined it. "It’s a good thing that it didn’t get wet by the water that entered the year before from the tiles." She brought it to the table. My mother's writting has always been italic. "The word 'conquers' is written with a 'c' mom not with a 'k'. "Does not matter" "You’re right" The cards were laid as Helen said on the table. "In their order!" she insisted. I opened the notebook randomly on a page. «Dastar. The Chanoum of diamond. Is she here in the cards?" "Yes". "So who is she mother?" "This one!" Helen showed a card. "I can only see an eyebrow." "That’s her I am telling you!" What number does she have in the notebook?" "Fourteen" "That’s her. Here! Count from the start to fourteen." There was no doubt. "Sit down and read," she finally said. "I will go to the market. The boatman told me that he has fresh school shark” I was alone with the deck. I wrote the cards on a new paper. "What is this? It looks like a fox. Something can be seen here. A nose of a fox for sure." I counted the cards and found them to be sixty-five. There were persons, symbols, stones, and Jan. Love had a high position among the interpretations. I decided to tell muself my fortune. I took the notebook. "Let’s see lady Deste! Are you worth anything?" I picked up a card and it nearly cut in two. I thought too put it together with scotch tape, but it would turn yellow over time. I felt sorry for it. The deck was very worn. By instinct I did not want to hurt it. I changed route and got some thin paper to copy the cards. At one o’clock, mom came back along with the school sharks. "What are you doing there, Maria?" "I am drawing" "DON’T!" "I am not destroying the deck mom! I am copping what I can." "Bullshit”. She was upset. "I am not tressuring the deck for so many years for you to ruin it. No, no! Such a precious thing. You will understand how precious it is when you start asking it" "Have you ever asked it?" "It's not mine!" She lifted her shoulder "and put it in the box now! You don’t deserve it...!" "Ok, don’t scream. What are we going to eat?" "School shark with potato purée. I'm going to soak the bread" I followed her. "Tell me about this deck mom. What do you remember;" "I know that Katina believed in it as if it was a God. "he Deste is the light of knowledge," she used to say. "She has come from the depths of the East and Asia." What Deste says, will come true." She told me that Deste shows you what will happen. What is about to happen. She didn’t take a step without consultin Deste. "I want to know! ..." She used to say. "If I know, then I will now how to prepare myself, I will know what I should do. Knowledge is a guard... 'You have seen Deste too'. "Come on!" "Katina took the deck out and wrote the cards for me when you were very young. Once I was afraid that your father might have an affair. The cards said NO, and he didn’t... He was a good man". "Well good!" "Listen! Katina left the cards for you. Do what you want with them. I am only telling you that it is a sin to ruin something so old." I thnought things through again. I spent all night looking at the deck. The next day I did not go for a swim. Nor the next day, nor the next day. I was there, lookind at Deste. I studied the meanings. When Friday night came, I had learned the meanings of the cards by heart. And then I aksed the cards for the first time. I followed the instructions and layed out the cards. Mom was watching. Being afraid of destroying the cards, I moved them with reverence. I tried to find which card represented me to put it in the center." "You better put a picture of you in the center. Look! Katina used this little portait of hers" she lift the velvet and underneath was a little pin with a painting of Katina. "Is this Katina?" "Yes, that’s her" The portrait was showing a proud woman. A lady. Black clothes, showing cleavage. Her hair was raised and caught in thick curls. One eyebrow was higher than the other. "She kinda looks like you mom. Especially in the eyes." Finally I chose to use the Chanum of Ruby. “I’ll use her.” The wedding card fell to my right. It was the Ring. "Do you know what this means mom?" "What?" "I will remarry" That didn’t impress her. "Go on, let us see who you get. And once you finish put the deck back in the box. " "This is frustrating!” "Yes. And no one else except your must touch the cards." "I say we make a copy." "What?" "Let’s make a copy." "No, no. no!" "This way we will read the cards without fearing of damaging the old deck. We will paint eyebrows and will complement everything that has worn out. We will put paintings where there are missing the old pictures. Hold on. I have a girlfriend, Elli. She works in a museum. The way the restore ancient things, the same way will we restore Deste.” "Your friend must not touch Deste”! "But how will she do it then?" "Describe the cards to her." Deste was on the way for restoration first thing next morning. Mom was affraid. "I am telling you, your friend will make a Deste for herself and will see her fate." "So what? Why do you care? Aren’t you the one who always proudly says that Katina used to say that what we should share what we have with our own people?" Two days later the phone rang. He was asking me to marry him. My boyfriend had decided to marry me.
Aegina, 18 August 1965….
"Eleni, it would be wise if you looked more after yourself! Your husband is coming!" Katina was almost shouting. "Aunt I haven’t finished with the kitchen yet. The children are still eating." "First comes your husband, then the kids." My mother muttered something through her teeth. "Eat!" She shouted to my brother. The infant began to chew slowly. He stared. "If you vomit, I will have you eat again!" Aunt Katina came to the kitchen. She struck her cane on the legs of my chair. "Get up!" she said.  "Your father is coming, go and wash." "Dad belongs to Mom." "Dad lives in a house with three women." "You count as a woman too?" "Yes”. "You are ugly…" "If you want him to keep buying you toys, he has to believe and be proud to have the perfect daughter ... Get up!" "Let her be aunt, she will cry." "If she is to be woman, she should start acting like one now. And the baby, dress it! " We all started getting ready. Mom put on some lipstick. Orange. This was the only one she had and her lips were always orange. She brushed her hair. I took off my shorts and threw them on the floor. Aunt Katina was standing behind me. Pick it up." I picked it up and looked at her. Bad woman. "Don’t we have a basket for the laundry?" "No". We all sat dressed in the living room waiting for Dad. Always when we were wearing our formal clothes, we would sit quiet and careful not to damage them. "Oh," sighted Mom. "I forgot to buy flour. All morning I was thinking... what have I forgotten to buy, what have I forgotten... " "I'll tell you what you have forgotten," said Katina." You have forgotten how to be a woman." We looked at her. "I will teach you a secret which I learned it from Zagreta. And you too, "she turned to me. We sat on the sofa and Katina in the armchair. "Well. Sit comfortably. Okay... Now close your eyes ... Nice ... And take a deep breath. Like this... Now imagine that you are very rich and live in a palace. You have nice dresses, dining tables, chandeliers, carriages and lackeys." Suddenly I saw myself as a princess with a pink dress playing with a ball in the garden. "You have many dresses, cooks in the kitchen and gardeners for the flower beds." "Nannies too, aunt" said mom. "To look after the baby." "And nannies to look after the baby," went Katina on. I secretly opened one eye. Mom had a funny lady face. "We are now all together in the dining room and we are eating ..." "And we are being served ..." did mom. "And we are being served," continued Katina. "At the head of the table sits your husband, Helen ..." "I see him," said Mom, still having her eyes closed."... who loved and married you when you were young and beautiful ... And look what a beautiful life he offers you! ... But now the years have passed ..." "Oh, yes, they pass ... ah!" "We have guests." "Who?" "They are neighbors. A couple. Husband and wife. The woman is sitting on the right of your husband. " "How is she?" "I will describe her to you. You have the same age. She is not particularly beautiful, but she is impressive. She is taking care of herself, simply dressed. A beautiful cleavage is all she has and she made sure to show it off with a dress that opens on the shoulders. She wears what suits her, not what fashion obligates. She is clever. She is clever to have learned how to speak nice, waving her hands, to be pleasant. Do you know how many rehearsals she had in front of the mirror to have the perfect result? Do you know how many rehearsals she had to find the perfect way to hide her big nose? Eventually she found the way ... " "And what is she talking about?" Worried mom. "She is not talking, she is listening!" She is listening to what your husband is saying. One can find many who talk, because everyone needs to talk. Everyone has their problems. Above all they talk about themselves, "Me, me, me, me ...". She prefers to listen. She is smart". I felt that mom was angry. "Your husband," continued Katina," would like to meet with her again. He likes her image, her companionship. And you can never know how it will go on and where it will end..." "I will fight her," cried mom, who got used to the palaces in her mind. "How?" asked Katina. "Ado you think she hasn’t rehearsed in front of the mirror how to be good in bed? And then what? Your man will lean towards her. And in your house will trouble will start." "I will…" "You will what?" "He is my man, isn’t he?" "No, he is not yours! He has married you ... yes, but he is not yours. A man belongs to all women. The one who manages to have him, gets him. If you want to have him, you to win him every day. You have stopped trying Eleni, you stopped being a woman ... " Mom stood up terrified, because she heard the key at the door. Dad was home. That weekend Dad felt like a king. And when he left on Monday morning, Katina and Mom began to make creams, lotions and body oils. "Do you know something aunt Katina?" "What;" "I thought about the matter." "What matter?" "If she throws herself on my husband, then I will do the same on her husband! " "Ha!" Aunt Katina rarely laughed, but now she couldn’t hold it. "In that case I have to tell you this. First we prepare and arm and then we go to war. And armature means weapons Eleni, weapons you don’t posses..." Katina put her eyebrows together. "Maybe it's time for you to learn them, so you will respect and guard them well". On Monday evening Mοm seemed to be worrying about something. On Tuesday evening she looked at us as if we had done something wrong. We were looking back at her. For the first time I took my brother and we sat on the couch in the living room. We didn’t talk. Katina paid no attention to what we were doing, she was watching my mother. At that moment she was looking into the mirror. The right pocket was frayed. Voula the dressmaker had sewn her dress the year before. "There are no shops here in Aegina." She frowned. "Should I go to Piraeus? I can find anything I want in Vassileos Georgiou Street. I have some money." She was thinking... What is her husband doing in Piraeus alone? She had never thought about it! Let’s say that in the morning he goes to the store. Let’s say that he comes back home at three. Let’s say that he is tired and eats something. What does he eat? Let’s say that he takes a nap. What is he doing after that? In the evening? She was thinking of all the possible things he could do. She decided to call him and went to the phone. At quarter past seven Katina told us that we were expecting visitors. Who will come? Someone she knows. Do we know her? No. We started closing the curtains as it was getting dark outside. Katina went to her room. Her kingdom. She pulled the chest. Many times I sneaked in there with the intention to open this chest. "What is she hiding here?" Although it wasn’t locked, I would struggle and struggle but it would not open. Then I would leave, afraid to be caught by her. Katina opened the chest with a flick. She took out a package wrapped in worn velvet. She used to call the velvet "Velio". Mom used to call it sometimes like that too, smiling at the same time. "The Velio!" Aunt... "The Velio!" Katina brought the velvet on her forehead. "Deste!” she said. Her expression sweetened. Extremely carefully she unwrapped the cloth. A box made of black wood appeared. "Ebony!” Katina admired and stroked the box. She told us to light a candle. The lid of the box had sculpted writings. Aunt passed her fingers lightly over them. "Whatever destiny bestows, whatever it bestows, is welcome". When she opened it, a similar cloth of the same color appeared. A pin was holding it carefully together. Inside were drawings. Many drawings. Some were like this, others like that, but none was similar to another. A painter must have spent years to paint them with a thin brush. Some made you shiver. You could feel their wickedness. Others softened your heart. The Earth Mother! What a face! Others were arecognisable. Some were as if they had been thrown to the ground and thousands of horses had run over them. One by one Katina spread the cards on the table. We sat around the table so we could see them. And when the moon rose, someone knocked on the door...

Smyrna night of May 9, 1889….
Someone knocked on the door... It was a woman who wasn’t from the neighborhood. There was something in the air. Inside the room of Astarte a single candle was shining. The woman was carrying a large book, noone has seen a bigger book. It had padlocks and iron bars. "Noone," said Astarte "knows the things Selana knows. We..." she continued "are nothing without knowing our roots, our ancestors. You can not see the light, if you do not know the darkness. People often fear what will happen to them. They better learned what allready has happened to them. Because what has happened will happen again ... Selana has the knowledge of the shadow. The shadow that follows people. And she is here to remind us". The air chilled and Selana began to speak. She may have been talking for eight days continuesly.... "Once upon a time, in those old times, even before water seperated from land, there were three sisters. Astarte, Vaalide, whose real name was Vaal and Dastar. Their mother was Assyranta, who could read the stars and the waters.Astarte and Vaalide were the firstborns. The mind of the one was kind. The mind of the other was evil. Their mother, Assyranta, one day gave each one their fields so thez would never quarrel. Each sister took the places appointed to her and created their civilisation there. Astarte was given the title of "Mag". People called them later witches, but then “Mag” meant "The wise one".Vaal didn’t hesitate and demanded to have India, the distant islands and China. Large parts of earth. She built her palaces there. Astarte was given Mesopotamia, Persia, the Russian steppes. Dastar was given the black earth. She built her Palace near the Nile and gave birth to the pharaohs. Along with the places, the three sisters were given from their mother the power to determine the fate of their people. Finally, a gift to each one, the power of knowledge, the art of magic.

Vaal took over China and terror immediately overcame the people there. Her first concern was wealth. "You will keep each day a plate of food and the rest is mine." She organized a strong army with sharp swords. The soldiers were going from place to place, from city to city and from village to village and gathered anything the poor people had.Some protested, but Vaal flew one night with black wings over the place and cursed them. The children fell ill, villages were burned down and those who protested lost their heads. Everyone was affraid. They feared Vaal. Everyone was hiding from her. That’s when they stoped calling her “Wise Vaal” and started calling her "Vaalinde". Everyone started to fear her. Then something happened and Vaal started the wars. The holy wars of the Jan. She heard that the world adored her sister, Mag Astarte, more and more every day. People there loved her and she gave them gifts. They learned how to have a better life, build houses, cultivate their fields, to use the colors. Now she was building splendid palaces beside the Euphrates river, studying the stars and provided paths for the people, very promising paths. She was shining more day by day. Vaal’s clothes which were of precious gems, her colorful palaces which reached up to the sky, the birds singing inside gold cages began to fade and Vaal was jealous that people loved Astarte. She started sending messengers to learn what was happening in Astarte’s kingdom. "Blessed be the Wise Astarte, the mistress of the two rivers", were the words the messengers brought back. Instead of answering, the crafty Vaal took their heads. She dressed in men's clothes, took sharp swords and began furiously to play war games. If her opponent defeaded her, he would lose his head. She was fighting in the morning; she was fighting in the night. From day to night. Even while asleep she was fighting and opposite her was her true rival, Astarte. She let her people know that if somebody defeated the crafty Vaal in a swordfight, he would gain riches, strength and glory. She hated. And the more she hated, the more stubborn she became and fought. She wanted to tear her sister appart. And she was trying to find a reason to attack her. Till one day..... she found a reason. That’s when the wars of the witches began. There was silence. Selana took a breath. Astarte lowered her head. "Vaalinde" continued Selana, "left China and went to stay in the steppes which also belonged to her. She turned the people of the steppes into warriers. She gave them horses, war cries, thirst for riches and she made them attack to the West. She began to give birth to their leaders, the sultans. At the same time, she organized her Vaaltrides, her witches, to fight the Astartines, the witches who followed Astarte. People and Jan, blood and mind were lost... 
"Notes: *Vaaltrides= The followers of Vaalinde, the witches who practise black magic*Astartines= The followers of Astarte, the witches who practise white magic

Aegina, 24 August 1965…
"... Fights! The war of the witches lasted centuries ... " "Enough! Selana." Katina pointed with her hand the cards which were spread out on the table. “Tell us about deste” "Deste is our oldest secret!" Selana opened the iron bars of the big book and took a powder. She sprinkled the powder on the cards. A thin layer of powder swirled in the air and sat on the cards. "The souls have risen again" she muttered "People and Jan, animals and suns, elements of earth, air, fire, water and heaven... Come... I, Selana, daughter of Astarte call you" The south wind blew. The kitchen window opened wide and the shutter hit a vase on the window sill. "Every person of Deste”, continued Selana, "is a person of our line that has been happy, hurt, cried, suffered, new glory and pain. Every person of Deste, has learned the hard way what she or he wants to tell you... You just need to have the courage to listen. The cards will tell you what you want to know, just hear their voices. They will take your hand and will show you the things to come. Trust them. You will not lose." Selana rested her hand on Tattaret. "We call her the Khanum of Ebony. Her hair was black, her eyelashes were dark. In her Mongolian face two eyes where shining like stars amid the night. Her mother was very poor and Tattaret was always taking care of her. She was a good daughter. She was born when glory would go into the hands of the Tatars. This was her generation. Genghis Khan fell in love with her when the Tatars lived on the plains. The waters there were blue and the grass was green. These wild people only cared about these two things until Tattaret sowed her husband the desire for wealth and conquest. He called all the Tatars together and became leader of all Mongols and she strengthened the Astartines witches of the race. Astarte chose Tattaret as a Jan when she was eight years old. During her years of reign among the Tatars, the Vaaltrides witches suffered major disasters. Tattaret entered China as a winner. Whenever she tried to get to India Vaalinde lifted heat waves to stop her. One day the battle was difficult. Tattaret ordered the army of her husband to light fires everywhere. The enemy feared the crowd he saw in the night and fled. When Tattaret was killed on the battlefield, she entered the body of her daughter. The world saw in horror Khan marrying his daughter! Through Deste, Tattaret will tell you about family and the children you will have but also about evil and convenience. Selana came back from the memories. “Tattaret deserved her place in Deste. We honor her every May 1st when the crops grow big, like in those cool Tatarian meadows... 

Smyrna, the night of October 7, 1890….
Silence…. Astarte showed the Jan of Ariman. Selana nodded and continued "In the mythology of the witches there are dark elements that have been painted in the cards to remind us of our mistakes and our misery." "What a funny creature!" Katina put her finger on the card. "It looks funny... Did this bring us misery?!" "This creature…" answered Selana, "You should be afraid of this creature. It’s the Jan of Ariman that has as its color the red of fire. It is the Bear. The Astartines call it "the fraud…" Throughout our existence we are fighting for our generation. Throughout our existence we are fighting for the right and our beliefs. People have always been under our control, without knowing how and why. We chose to guide the powerful. But Mag Astarte knows that the power lies in the humble ones. And when she decides, the time will come when we will offer our gifts and our beliefs to the people. We will initiate them into the secrets of the gods. Then our armies will multiply by thousands and the Vaaltrides will be vanquished. This war will end. Peace will reign. Only one risk will keep lurking. The Jan of Ariman. It is sly. Then you will have to fight the frauds". "Me?" "You!" "I am not interested in fighting anyone," said Katina. "These cards! How do they work?" Selana ignored her. "You will want to fight the frauds because deep inside you are one too. You must first fight yourself.”

"Aegina, 24 August 1965….
Mom was looking at Deste admiing the cards. Selana continued. "But, apart from the witches who follow Vaalinde, we have to fight the frauds too". During the years, the frauds managed to take what they could from us...." They stole everything they could. Whatever came their way, whatever they heared ... That way they filled their stomachs deceiving those who were naive. They passed on the imperfect knowledge as heritage to their children and their grandchildren. Some of them had skills and enriched the knowledge with other nonsense. They wanted to impress ... Hm! The first thing they tried to steal from us was Deste.” Selana got goosebumps. "In those years each coven was preparing their Jan to fight. The young Jan were becoming members of the coven at a very tender age, like the bears in the service of the goddess Artemis. Mag Astarte was choosing them with a mother’s wisdom. They were learning to see what they could not see, hear what they could not hear. The young Jan learned the art of wisdom. They trained their minds. They learned with dolls and cards. One of these tools was Deste. You should respect Deste and touch the cards after you have been cleansed. Deste is very old. In the begining, many many years ago, there were only four cards. The red of the fire, the white of the air, the black of the earth, the green of the water. *(The deck we have in our hands, dates back to 1600. That’s when cards of the earlier version were replaced. The original Deste cards date back to 600 BC or maybe even earlier to the Greek Archaic Period) They tried to steal Deste from Barnabe when he was seven years old. Fortunately they didn’t make it and they painted on their own what they saw from the cards. They put hearts and stars, because their talent could go only this far and they couldn’t paint anything else"... Then she said angrily: "They named Munzour, our best horse, Smudge, even though it is the brightest spirit of Manchuria... The frauds earn your trust, because they pretend to be your friends. One who is hurting needs someone to trust, someone to give him or her hope, to make the pain go away. The frauds know this very well. They work on this and enslave those who need them. They suck their air, their blood, their soul. The frauds must be vanguished to redeem people, to let them live free".

....Suddenly Katina stood up and leaned on her walking stick. "During this lifetime, I trusted everyone as much as they deserved and only if they deserved my trust. I had my eyes open and my ears ready to listen. But I was always armed with two powerful weapons. The blessing of mother Astarte and the ability tosea into the future. Because when you know, you know the way. Because when you know, you move with caution. Knowledge is wealth. People often tell you: "If I would have known, I would have acted different.” I never answered them. I learned to read the Deste when I was ten years old. Since then I walked through my life with my entire generation by my side, fighting with me and guiding me. The horse of Ruby, Kalif, saved me one day of something that would lead me to big troubles. When I first married my second husband Konstantinos and became lady Karamanou, an enemy sprung up like a snake and wanted to suck my blood and to humiliate me to my husband. She wanted Syrios, my brother in law. She was a member of an old family in Smyrna, rulers, without money any more after her father had been financialy destroyed. She imagined that she would impress Syrios. One night during a social gothering she began talking about the fine and wealthy families of Smyrna, how their members should marry girls from good and rich families. "Those who do not come from these families should not be in our company." She hit with her spoon her glass to make silence and to go on talking. I continued eating because I was hungry. I did not know what it meant when someone hit the spoon on the glass. "Our men should be carefull with who they fall in love and who they marry. All the poor girls from the neighborhoods want to become ladies of the high society...!" Everyone at the table burst out laughing. Two of them turned and looked at me. The cunning snake went on: "Nobody forbids them to have mistresses. They are men after all. But that’s enough. They must protect us from the misery to eat with them at the same table." Everyone turned and looked at me. At the moment pasta was hanging from my mouth. I was trying to put them in my mouth as I was eating greedily... I was hungry. I noticed that they looked at me with disgust. She raised her eyebrow and said: "They owe it to us!" I hated her! The next day, Syrios, asked Konstantinos to take me to another home. The snake’s poison had found its mark. I put forth to fight her. I was furious. All my attention was there. But one day, when I was reading the cards, Kalif showed me something different "Do not underestimate your enemy. Listen carefully to his words. It is to your advantage. Build on these words". That’s how I interpreted his meaning. Then I woke up. He made me understand that even if I killed this snake, another one would attack me. He made me understand that my enemy was not her, but me! And I was much better than her. And who was she anyway?! If they would put us side by side in hard times, I would survive, she would start crying. I felt strong. If everyone else could hit the spoon and make silence, I could too! I began to build a respect that I would later require. But do not think that the snake escaped! I took her out in time and enjoyed every scream she gave out while I was killing her. Kalif says something else too "Clear words are always the best method." One day I went and found her. "That’s enough! I told her. Stop it! If you continue, I will destroy you." She didn’t take me seriously. She even laughed and threw me out. Three months later, she was preparing to get married. She bought her wedding dress. She was happy and everyone was wishing her the best. She was preparing a wedding that the city of Smyrna would talk about. She was getting married to a rich man. But the wedding dress stayed in her closet. The groom left two days before the wedding and eloped with another woman. The snake bit her own tongue. She couldn’t even eat pasta anymore. She lost her mind. She was running from one witch to another hoping to bring the groom back. "Yes," they were telling her... “He will come back”.  I think she is still waiting!”
When I was seventeen, I fell madly in love with a young man. I was melting for him. In the night I would run away from home to go and find him. I was afraid that someone would see me. What if I lost Spiros? The pasha of Ruby, Saah, appeared that day in the cards. As if he was supporting me. "Do not let this love get away" he said. "Get to know him! Experience his love! Because if you don’t you will not taste life and life will foolishly pass you by and only bitterness will stay behind. At the end you will understand who you love most and you will give yourself to him. Do not be afraid. Nobody will find out if you do not want anyone to find out." I rushed and lived this passion! And when I had enough, I missed my husband. I loved my husband more. And as the pasha of Ruby had told me, no one ever found out." Katina sat down again. The candle was almost done. When it would extinguish and there was dark, Selana would leave. 

Smyrna night of July 23, 1894…
"What do you want to know?" Selana turned to Katina. "Tomorrow, my aunt Foula and my cousin Despina will go to Kokargiali, in the countryside outside of Smyrna and they asked me to go with them." There, in the front house, the good one, the family of Spiros Sermpetoglou will spend the summer! Have you heard of him? Aunt Foula wants him for Despina. She wants Despina to marry him. But my mother tells me, she wishes I could marry him. He is young and handsome and rich and a gentleman. All of Smyrna respects him! We would become rich ladies and everyone would be jealous... What do you think?" She looked at Selana. Selana took Katina’s hand and put it on Deste. "You, mistress of memory and will, You light in the darkness. You queen of souls. Give the power of the spirits to this girl so she can make her journey. Illuminate this girl so she can see the things to come." The cards began to open on the sofa. Above to the left appeared the Road, long and open and next to the road the Heart glowing and illuminated. "Your path is blessed by the fates. You will go there where you say and you will meet the one you want. Your heart is ready for him. You will give him your heart." Above the heart appeared Sunit and over him the Stars. "It will be difficult to win him. Very difficult. I see that you will seduce him. You will become the Princes of Ruby; you will use your body, your charms to make him want you... Turan! Turan reversed. You will bind him with spells. After that more difficulties are coming. He loves a girl. She is the daughter of another practitioner. They cast spells on him too. But their spells aren’t strong. They are made by ignorand hands and you will break them easily. More difficulties! The Queen of Ebony wants to stop your marriage. It’s his mother. She will not succeed. The light of Jan helps you." On the sofa appeared Urmiaa "The victory is yours. The Queen of Ruby and the Ring fall here... Your new partner brings the gifts of confidence and stability. With him you will have a good life. Here look! The Anchor! For many moons awaits you a new home, a rich and happy home with gifts send form the heavens and the earth... Until... Selana suddenly shivered. The Cross and the Tomb were the last cards. She looked upset and Katina looked at her with curiosity. "Enough". The hand of Astarte stopped Selana. Aegina, 24 August 1965 "What do you want to know Eleni?" Selana turned to Mom. Mom didn’t know what to say.... 
THE END﻿